---
title: A catalogue of embarrassing YouTube subcultures
published_at: 2024-05-26T19:56:00.000Z
tags: prose
---

Before 2020, I don't think that I'd ever subscribed to a YouTube channel. I mostly listened to music and thought, I'll see someone's videos when I remember to check in on them? Or, the algorithm was delivering enough videos from someone (usually the problem was if I watched several videos from one creator, it kept recommending their others which I had no interest in).<br/>
Now I'm subscribed to a lot, like A LOT. I'm newly concerned about time spent on this during unemployment. Ideally there would be enough to watch during downtime but not too much that I'm always trying to complete the videos.

Mainstream YouTube and video essays feel like someone else's niche. These channels recently went into turmoil over post-BuzzFeed personalities trying to start their own video services. I think the issue here is I'm watching the videos as background noise or I'm in the wrong generation for the format to hit.

In late 2019 the algorithm was showing me people dishing about their Disney internships, which led me to a YouTuber who worked at Disney and on a TV series. During lockdown she made a daily vlog and a housemate edited,  which became a reassuring routine. I've had some time to reflect on this, and a family vlog is this weird salesmanship where everything is perfect and the parents and relatives spend quality time with the kids, and they all have a fun 10-minute arc *every day without fail*. She's older than I, but to appeal to her younger audience she frequently talked about feeling left out or naive in school. I don't want to have kids, so I started to meta-critique watching this during covid as a journey of the soul / reassessing my childhood.<br/>
Meanwhile her childhood stories revealed some jarring material about growing up evangelical and fearing demons in college, never learning fractions... which raises questions about her relatives (vloggers who homeschool several kids). During the election and January 6th I realized the parasocial was real -- I was anticipating hearing her takes (CNN maps seemed to confuse her into thinking counties have electoral votes?). Last year she took several months off, which helped circulate several controversies and shifted her whole vibe; now I haven't watched a video in months (especially after switching from adblock to YouTube Premium).

You'd think that I'd get into tons of travel and food channels but I settled on 2-3. There seems to be a pipeline for travel influencers to become vegan, and/or have kids and visit Disney (remember at the end of the day, dollars come from views, brand deals, and parents who buy stuff from ads). So it was cute to watch  2020 van life in Australia, not so much gush over Disney launching a new cruise ship. 

Another genre is reaction channels. In 2016 a channel tried to trademark "_ react to _" for short clips. The only one of these which I could see watching in the year 2024 is "Tribal People Try" (they're Pakistani elders) - in 2022 they went on a trip to Dubai and it looked like fun. When I was checking the channel today they're marveling at a globe. I guess it's authentic?

More recently there's a niche where people watch famous 20th century series (Alien, Back to the Future, Indiana Jones, Star Wars), post their reactions to story beats on YouTube, and the full video and social media interaction will be paid on Patreon. I think this took off with people introducing their partner or friend to Star Wars? <br/>
There are still couple  channels  which often pivot to newer movies or TV series. Choice of movies is kinda generation coded. Individual reactions can be interesting but it's more obviously for views (gamer chair, podcast mic), sometimes you wonder if they really hadn't seen the movie before . On channels I've seen people in Oklahoma and Florida who talk about city life through movies (also sharing their experiences with the military IRL). So it's not an echo chamber at least.<br/>
A niche spinoff of this is a  channel where Vietnamese women discussed American-made Vietnam War movies (recently they moved on to Harry Potter). <br/>
The algorithm is rather influential in this subculture (if you spend an hour on someone's  Back to the Future videos, your recommendations are full of their other videos and others' Back to the Future). <br/>
I won't Patreon these guys, but I suppose my views do something.

LawTube: I only watch Emily Baker, she comments on and livestreams trials (I've been recommending her Karen Read stuff). I don't know any lawyers, so it's new material for me. This sounds a lot like true crime, but I am not watching hours of theories about serial killers. Most of those online discussions are just super weird cringe of "so-and-so sounds off, they are the killer", "my cousin is law enforcement and said...", "what is your favorite case", "doesn't everyone have Ring cameras these days?". Maybe what's going on with trial media is that it's good background material (multiple people discussing the same familiar sequence of events, routines within trials for each witness). Also true of movie reactions, if you think about it.

Transit Tube: there is an urbanism YouTube, but it's often falling into deep niche information about  train lines. There isn't enough content for people to stick to their home city (except Urban Caffeine?) so a channel might narrate the history of Singapore subway lines or the top 10 cities with stadiums. I will shout out Trains Are Awesome videos which are generally tied to in-person travel and/or unusual transit lines. There's also Miles in Transit who connect smaller transit routes and bus lines on long meandering paths - recently they took a Lake Michigan ferry! These channels typically have a younger dude showing obsessive detail to buses or trains and whether they meet expectations. Is this an autism thing? Fuck.<br/>
I don't know when to Patreon these guys because it's research and useful information but also it's strange to pay someone to record public transit? Maybe a couple of dollars if I subscribe to videos and learn from commentary.

In conclusion: in 2015, someone posted a Hacker News thread *"Novelty addiction is ruining my life and career"* which was insightful. I have different levels of control over introducing new material in daily life (travel, work, side projects) and in digital life (this YouTube thing). Everyone's routine was different in 2020 and a lot of people spend time on YouTube, Twitch, and Netflix. And I'm not in some WallStreetBets, cryptocurrency, or other mob subculture. But now I can think about whether I'm spending too much time on subcultures where I don't have any social interaction.

I'm always up for watching a video about someone who's escaped a cult or been to space, but that's more of a one-time thing. I end up on these other subcultures to have more background video, time which I used to spend more time coding random web content or watching news (which isn't super healthy either).<br/>
A lot of these videos speak to routines and nested subroutines. I don't want to make it a whole neurotypical thing because I've always interpreted that as a 'childhood going through the motions, adulthood finding a vibe' thing.

If someone is out here watching movies or recording trains, it's weird for me to encourage them with views, right? Is it just normal life in 2024? Am I free of responsibility once they already have 50k subscribers? Maybe the right thing for me would be a filter stage which picks videos from my subscriptions which will be super-interesting to me. Or I could be my own filter and pick fewer videos (maybe only ones where I'm so invested that I'd leave a comment?). For a while I thought I should switch this time over to writing/videoing a series about ML, the TikTok ban, the chip factory outside Phoenix, or getting into multi-day bike tours, but at the end of the day I'm more audience than broadcaster.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
